# NTU-India_Connect
A Novel Metaheuristic Algorithm for a MultiObjective Path Planning Problem for Unmanned Surface Vehicles taking into consideration water current and wind effects

The purpose of this research was to explore the Global Path Planning of USV to travel from its initial to final point via specific waypoints, avoiding various obstacles along the way satisfying multiple objectives such as path smoothness, shortest path length and path safety taking into consideration the major environmental factor, water current and its effect on path planning. The main constraints considered were boundary, angle (safe area) and velocity and four major experiments were conducted to identify the right number of parameters before the simulation analysis was done.

MOIGWO was further evaluated against the ZDT3, multi-objective benchmark function using the standard metrics of IGD, Spacing and Maximum Spread. Taking one of the tasks of Maritime RobotX 2022 Challenge as the context to solve, a novel multi objective parameterization method using nature inspired Grey Wolf metaheuristic optimization method has been proposed in the paper and the optimal paths have been selected using Pareto Optimal Solutions.

Three Metaheuristic Algorithms were implemented namely:

1. Multi Objective Evolutionary Algorithm
2. Multi Objective Grey Wolf Algorithm
3. Particle Swarm Algorithm

Three changes were made to the Multi Objective Grey Wolf Algorithm which are the following:

a. Inspired by the Particle Swarm Algorithm, the learning of the position of wolves for the next iteration takes both Social Harmony (learning from the best three solutions alpha,beta and delta wolves) as well as Individual Memory (with respect to previous best position) to reach the optimal solution.

b. Introduced non linearity in ‘f’, which was previously linearly decreased from 2 to 0. The modification that I have brought about is to reduce it exponentially from 2 to 0. This enables the discriminiation weight coefficient A to increase the exploration in the initial iterations, focus on exploitation near the end and improve its convergence rate.

c. Introduction of Chaos to the parameter C (random mutation coefficient) in Original GWO thereby improving the tradeoff between exploration and exploitation. This has been done by using a 1-D sinusoidal map with values ranging from 0 to 1.

Static obstacles and gates with known coordinates are provided as inputs. Randomness in map has been generated by random angle generation between left and right gates and in the selection of number of waypoints and obstacles in the path from starting to end point. 2 scenarios, Fixed Current Direction and Time Varying Current Direction have been simulated to test the real case viability of the path generated. A East - West generating wave function has been implemented and corresponding velocities have been added to initial USV velocity in the X and Y direction. 

The leaders or wolves (alpha,beta and delta) with best positions are chosen using the Roulette Wheel Probability and the positions of other wolves have been updated. An external
Archive is maintained where positions of wolves (USV’s possible positions in its path from start to end point) are stored. This archive is updated by selecting non dominating solutions satisfying
the Pareto Front. 8. At the end of Maximum Time iteration, the costs of each solution is normalised and using a Preference Set P, the best solution with the minimal total cost is returned as the Path
taken by the USV.

Author - Soorya Sriram

